Readme.adoc, before:

= CCSEP ASSIGNMENT 

== Team A - DOM Based XSS 

=== Program Description

A simple flask application for customers to search for and view clothing products provided by a fictional online retailer SHOPII. 

Home Page:

* The customer can see all products available from the store.

Search Page: 

* The customer can enter a search term and select search.
* The results will be populated, and further information on the products can be viewed by selecting 'View details'.

Product Page:

* If the customer Selects 'View details' on a product on the Search page, they will be directed here.
* The customer can view the product image in a larger format.
* The customer can select a store and check the stock levels of the product at that store.
* The customer can select alternative colours of the  


=== How to Run the Program

==== Requirements

* Docker
* Make

==== Usage

Results of tests will be displayed as command line outputs.

===== Build, Test & Run the Development Server

* $ make all

* Open http://localhost:8000/[localhost] 

===== Build & Test
* $ make build test

==== DOM Based XSS Vulnerability

===== How to Detect

Three DOM based XSS vulnerabilities exist in the master branch of the webapp. All are three can be detected by requesting the following URL's from the server: 

* Product Page: use of the non-encoded hash from the url to set shirt colour from the client.
** Intended Behaviour: http://localhost:8000/product?product=1#2[http://localhost:8000/product?product=1#2]
** Detection Payload: http://localhost:8000/product?product=1#1'%20onerror='alert(1);//[http://localhost:8000/product?product=1#1' onerror='alert(1);//]
* Search Page: use of a non-encoded query parameter to find and load result image.
** Intended Behaviour: http://localhost:8000/search?q=T-Shirt[http://localhost:8000/search?q=T-Shirt] 
** Detection Payload: http://localhost:8000/search?q=%3Cimg%20src=%22%22%20onerror=alert(1)>[http://localhost:8000/search?q=<img src="" onerror=alert(1)>]
* Product Page: use of a non-encoded parameter 'store' to check stock levels of a product.
** Intended Behaviour: http://localhost:8000/product?product=1&store=Perth[http://localhost:8000/product?product=1&store=Perth]
** Detection Payload: http://localhost:8000/product?product=1&store=</select><img%20src=1%20onerror=alert(1)>[http://localhost:8000/product?product=1&store=</select><img%20src=1%20onerror=alert(1)>]

These three payloads contain javascript. The scripts are stored within the dom and cannot be santitised by operations on the server, the sanitising must be pre-emptively written into the served data. When the requested page is served, the javascript written on the page will be executed. If it interacts with the malicious data stored in the dom, and does not adequately sanitise it, then the payloads can be run. Each payload demonstrates a different entry point that an attacker may exploit. For detection, the payload scripts simply cause a browser alert popup, this demonstrates a manipulation of the dom. 

==== How to Exploit 


==== How to Patch

DOM based XSS vulnerabilities occur when untrusted data is from the dom is used without adequate validation or escaping. The vulnerabilities have been removed on the https://github.com/ccsep-team-a/assignment/tree/patch[patch branch] by improving the sanitisation used in the html templates for the vulnerable pages. 

This was done by introducing the use of javascript's https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/encodeURI[encodeURI function], and changing the use of https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/innerHTML[innerHTML] to https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLElement/innerText[innerText]. These changes can be seen explicitly in https://github.com/ccsep-team-a/assignment/commit/5703686a432bf712b9e1ae235fbec6d341800f85[this commit].

=== License

See link:LICENSE[]

Commit message:

update exploit section of readme

Readme.adoc, after:

= CCSEP ASSIGNMENT 

== Team A - DOM Based XSS 

=== Program Description

A simple flask application for customers to search for and view clothing products provided by a fictional online retailer SHOPII. 

Home Page:

* The customer can see all products available from the store.

Search Page: 

* The customer can enter a search term and select search.
* The results will be populated, and further information on the products can be viewed by selecting 'View details'.

Product Page:

* If the customer Selects 'View details' on a product on the Search page, they will be directed here.
* The customer can view the product image in a larger format.
* The customer can select a store and check the stock levels of the product at that store.
* The customer can select alternative colours of the  


=== How to Run the Program

==== Requirements

* Docker
* Make

==== Usage

Results of tests will be displayed as command line outputs.

===== Build, Test & Run the Development Server

* $ make all

* Open http://localhost:8000/[localhost] 

===== Build & Test
* $ make build test

==== DOM Based XSS Vulnerability

===== How to Detect

Three DOM based XSS vulnerabilities exist in the master branch of the webapp. All are three can be detected by requesting the following URL's from the server: 

* Product Page: use of the non-encoded hash from the url to set shirt colour from the client.
** Intended Behaviour: http://localhost:8000/product?product=1#2[http://localhost:8000/product?product=1#2]
** Detection Payload: http://localhost:8000/product?product=1#1'%20onerror='alert(1);//[http://localhost:8000/product?product=1#1' onerror='alert(1);//]
* Search Page: use of a non-encoded query parameter to find and load result image.
** Intended Behaviour: http://localhost:8000/search?q=T-Shirt[http://localhost:8000/search?q=T-Shirt] 
** Detection Payload: http://localhost:8000/search?q=%3Cimg%20src=%22%22%20onerror=alert(1)>[http://localhost:8000/search?q=<img src="" onerror=alert(1)>]
* Product Page: use of a non-encoded parameter 'store' to check stock levels of a product.
** Intended Behaviour: http://localhost:8000/product?product=1&store=Perth[http://localhost:8000/product?product=1&store=Perth]
** Detection Payload: http://localhost:8000/product?product=1&store=</select><img%20src=1%20onerror=alert(1)>[http://localhost:8000/product?product=1&store=</select><img%20src=1%20onerror=alert(1)>]

These three payloads contain javascript. The scripts are stored within the dom and cannot be santitised by operations on the server, the sanitising must be pre-emptively written into the served data. When the requested page is served, the javascript written on the page will be executed. If it interacts with the malicious data stored in the dom, and does not adequately sanitise it, then the payloads can be run. Each payload demonstrates a different entry point that an attacker may exploit. For detection, the payload scripts simply cause a browser alert popup, this demonstrates a manipulation of the dom. 

==== How to Exploit 
An attacker can exploit this vulnerability by passing malicious javascript code into the url. An attacker may alter the page via this method to introduce a purchase button on the product page. Upon clicking the purchase button, the user could be redirected to a new webpage where they may disclose sensitive information without realising they are no longer interacting with the online retailer.

==== How to Patch

DOM based XSS vulnerabilities occur when untrusted data is from the dom is used without adequate validation or escaping. The vulnerabilities have been removed on the https://github.com/ccsep-team-a/assignment/tree/patch[patch branch] by improving the sanitisation used in the html templates for the vulnerable pages. 

This was done by introducing the use of javascript's https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/encodeURI[encodeURI function], and changing the use of https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/innerHTML[innerHTML] to https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLElement/innerText[innerText]. These changes can be seen explicitly in https://github.com/ccsep-team-a/assignment/commit/5703686a432bf712b9e1ae235fbec6d341800f85[this commit].

=== License

See link:LICENSE[]
